Maintenance: Test Revamp Phase 1 - Mild Refactor and Test Type Marking (#531)
NREL/GreenHEART: docs/developer_guide/adding_a_new_technology.md

Reviewer: I think the test discussion should be outside of the adding a new technology discussion because the tests apply to any code contributions to H2I.

Author: Great point! This content will all be made available in a separate testing page (commit incoming).

## Pull Request Checklist for New Technologies

When you're ready to submit a pull request for your new technology, please ensure you complete all

> items in the "New Technology Checklist" section of the pull request template. Remember that adding

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you're ready to submit a pull request for your new model please ensure you complete all
items in the "New Model Checklist" section of the pull request template. Remember that adding
```

a new technology typically requires review from both a core maintainer and ideally a second team
member, as these additions significantly expand H2Integrate's capabilities and set patterns for
future development.

> ### Writing and Running Tests

Reviewer 2: This is just lovely @RHammond2!! Thank you :)

much of the written code as possible. When adding new tests they should be decorated with one of
the following to allow for code maintainers to track test coverage
for the varying test types: `@pytest.mark.unit`, `@pytest.mark.regression`, or
`pytest.mark.integration`. In practice this looks like:

```python
@pytest.mark.unit
def test_simple_numeric_conversion():
    ... # test contents
```

For further information on how to write or run a test, please see the
[`pytest` documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/index.html), which outlines many
useful features for both writing and running tests.

When running tests (or building the docs) OpenMDAO produces a significant number of outputs files
and folders, which can be cleaned up using `openmdao clean`. This will prompt you to confirm every
folder, so if you don't need to review the OpenMDAO output files, they can be universally wiped
without prompts using the `-f` flag. Use `--help` for further usage instructions.

#### Chunking Lengthy or Complex Tests

At times these tests can be lengthy because many checks could be required in a single test function,

> so it can helpful to chunk these into subtests to allow the whole test to be run and fail at the end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so it can be helpful to chunk these into subtests to allow the whole test to be run and fail at the end
```

Author: Thanks for flagging!

complex logic and other subtests can provide insight into the nature of the failure. For these we
utilize the [subtests](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/subtests.html) functionality. The
example below will show the most basic usage to get started.

```python
# h2integrate/core/test/test_utilities.py
@pytest.mark.unit
def test_BaseConfig(subtests):
    """Tests the BaseConfig class."""

    with subtests.test("Check basic passing inputs"):
        demo = BaseDemoModel({"x": 1})
        assert demo.config.x == 1
        assert demo.config.y == "y"

    with subtests.test("Check allowed inputs overload"):
        demo = BaseDemoModel({"x": 1, "z": 2})
        assert demo.config.x == 1
        assert demo.config.y == "y"

    ... # rest of the test
```

#### Unit Tests

Unit tests should test the correctness of the code in isolation from the rest of the system.
At a minimum, this involves testing data handling, utility methods, setup, and error handling. Care
should also be taken to test around the edges of the program being written to ensure code can't
silently fail by producing erroneous results or failing unexpectedly.

> Run `pytest -m unit` to run only the unit test suite or `pytest -m not-unit` to skip the unit tests.

Reviewer 2: We could maybe link to or point to a specific example in H2I of a unit test? and similar for the other types of tests?

Author: See below (though checking the docs build would be better). I'll look into a couple other examples for regresssion and integration tests that aren't unreasonably long for embedding purposes.

Unit tests should test the correctness of the code in isolation from the rest of the system.
At a minimum, this involves testing data handling, utility methods, setup, and error handling. Care
should also be taken to test around the edges of the program being written to ensure code can't
silently fail by producing erroneous results or failing unexpectedly.

Run `pytest -m unit` to run only the unit test suite or `pytest -m not-unit` to skip the unit tests.

An example of a unit test is in the example below where there is only a validation of the location
of the output directory and subdirectory, and not the contents of those files.

:::{literalinclude} ../../h2integrate/resource/utilities/test/test_resource_file_tools.py
:start-at: @pytest.mark.unit
:end-at: assert output_dir == expected_output_dir
:::

#### Regression Tests

In an analysis-focused code base, regression tests should test the results of running the code to
ensure changes made do not alter expected results. These should not encapsulate more than the focal
system if it can be helped.

Run `pytest -m regression` to run only the regression test suite or `pytest -m not-regression` to
skip the regression tests.

> An example of a regression tesst is in the example berlow where the model's outputs are checked

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An example of a regression test is in the example below where the model's outputs are checked
```

for stability with some tolerance.

> :::{literalinclude} ../../h2integrate/converters/co2/marine/test/test_doc.py

Reviewer: As rendered in docs, the scale is different between the RNG and the comments.

https://h2integrate--531.org.readthedocs.build/en/531/developer_guide/adding_a_new_technology.html#pull-request-checklist-for-new-technologies

Author: The MW comments? If so, I'll just remove the comments since they don't add anything and clearly weren't maintained alongside the code

:start-at: @pytest.mark.regression
:end-at: assert_near_equal(total_tank_volume_m3
:::

#### Integration Tests

Integration tests should test the integration of the new code into other systems in the code base.
For a new model or technology, this will run it in conjunction with other technologies or models
and, similar to regression tests, will test the results of that code, ensuring the combination of
multiple components does not cause unexpected changes in any of the involved components.

An example would be to test that a model configuration that contributed to a publication always
produces the same results, ensuring the legitimacy of those results and the underlying modeled
systems.

Run `pytest -m integration` to run only the integration test suite or `pytest -m not-integration`
to skip the integration tests.

> For an example of an integration tests, please see the `examples/test/test_all_examples.py` module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For examples of integration tests, please see the `examples/test/test_all_examples.py` module
```

where multiple components are combined to test the models outputs for stability when using tools
in conjunction with each other.

> #### Test coverage

Reviewer 3: This is super cool, love this explanation!

To test the code coverage of the testing suite, we utilize the
[`pytest-cov`](https://pytest-cov.readthedocs.io/en/latest) package. To utilize, simply
run pytest as you normally would, with the following added to the end:

> `--cov=h2integrate`. This will produce a coverage report in the terminal after the tests complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test the code coverage of the testing suite, we use the
[`pytest-cov`](https://pytest-cov.readthedocs.io/en/latest) package. To produce a coverage report in the terminal after the tests complete, simply
run pytest as you normally would, with the following added to the end:
`--cov=h2integrate`..
```
